String are stored into a variable as a text. String are written with quotes. An simple example to store string literal into a variable are given bellow:

```js
let text = "Jhon Doe"
```

We can also write the string literal using single quote `'  '`  An example are given bellow:

```js
let text = 'Ecma Script'
```

We can also use string template to write a string. For using string template we have to use back trick . Template string were introduce ES6. An example are given bellow:

Code:
```js
let text = `He's often called "Johnny"`;
```

We will discuse more about string template later.

### Escape Characters:

There has some special characters which we use into string but program detect it as an error. To solve this type of problem we can use Escape character. Some Escape Characters are given bellow:

| Code | Result | Description |  |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| \\' | ' | Single quote |  |
| \\" | " | Double quote |  |
| \\\ | \\ | Backslash |  |
| \\b |  | Backspace |  |
| \\f |  | Form Feed |  |
| \\n |  | New Line |  |
| \\r |  | Carriage Return |  |
| \\t |  | Horizontal Tabulator |  |
| \v |  | Vertical Tabulator |  |

### String Object

We can also define a string as an object. For this we have to use `new` keyword. An example are given bellow:

```js
let y = new String("John")
```

But we don't use define string as an object. Because it will make the code complicated and  slow down execution time. String object also can provide unexpected result. An example are given bellow:

Code:
```js
function objCompare() {
    var string1 = new String("John")
    var string2 = new String("John")
    return string1 === string2;     //you can also use double equal sign here

}

console.log(objCompare())
```

Output:
```sh
false
```

Here we can see the output false. Because here we compare two string object. But when we compare the object it compare with reference of two object. And we know all object's reference value are different. That's why the function returns false.

**`Note: When we use == it compare only value but when we use === it check value and type in JavaScript!`**

## JavaScript String Methods:

For learning about string method in JavaScript you can go to the site [W3schools](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_obj_string.asp)

Now I will discouse about template string. There have many advantages of template string. That's are

- Some times we have to use single quote (`' '`)  or double quote (`" "`). But if we use single quote then if we want to use the single quote, we can't do it. On the other hand if we use double quote then if we want to use then double quote then we can't do it. But this case are solve JavaScript String method.
- JavaScript gives us the benefit of `Interpolation`. Template String provide an easy way to interpolate variable and expression into strings. An example of code are given bellow:
```js
let firstName = "John";  
let lastName = "Doe";  
let text = `Welcome ${firstName}, ${lastName}!`;
```

We can also write an expression in a string:

```js
let price = 10;
let VAT = 0.25;
let total = `Total ${(price *(1 + VAT)).toFixed(2)}`;
console.log(total)
```