Java script has only one type of number. Number can be written with or without decimal value. An example are given bellow:

```js
let x = 3.1415;
let y = 5;
```

If we want to write extra large number then we can use `e`(scientific exponent) notation like: 

```js
let x = 123e5     //12300000
let y = 123e-5    //.00123
```

Javascript does not define different type of numbers like integers, short, long, floating point etc. Javascript numbers are always stored as double precision floating point numbers which take 64-bit memory.


##### Integer Precision:
There are some wired thing in Number. An example are given bellow:

```js
let x = 999999999999999;   // x will be 999999999999999  
let y = 9999999999999999;  // y will be 10000000000000000
```


Here you can see the number increase 1. Because JavaScript give accurate integer number up to 15 digit. That's why this problem are occoured. But the maximum number of decimat is 17.

##### Floating Precision:

Floating point precision are not 100% accurate all time. An Example are given bellow:
Code:
```js
const decimalValue = 0.2 + 0.1;
console.log(decimalValue);
```
Output:
```sh
 0.30000000000000004
```

The out are not 100% accurate.

Another case are given bellow:
Code:
```js
let y = (0.2*10 + 0.1*10) / 10;
console.log(y)
```
Output:
```sh
0.3
```
Here you can see the output are accurate.

So it is true that the decimal value are not accurate always.


### NaN:

`NaN` -(Not a Number) is a  JavaScript reserved word that indicating a number is not a legal number. If you try to do arithmetic operation with not numeric string the result will be `NaN`.

Code:
```js
let x = 100 / "Apple";
```
Output:
```sh
NaN
```

### Infinity:

Infinity (or -Infinity) is the value JavaScript will return if you calculate a number outside the largest possible number.
### Hexadecimal:

If we use `0x` before a number then it converted into Hexadecimal. An example are given bellow:

Code:
```js
let x = 0xFF;
console.log(x);
```
Output:
```sh
255
```


### Number Object:

Normally JavaScript numbers are primitive value. But we can also define a number as an Object using `new` keyword in JavaScript. An example are given bellow:

Code:
```js
let y = new Number(123);
console.log(typeof y);
```

Output
```sh
object
```

It is not best practice to use the Number as an Object without any reason. Because it make different type of difficulties in the codebase. An example are given bellow:

```js
let x = new Number(500);  
let y = new Number(500);
console.log(x === y);
```

### BigInt:

`BigInt` is the second numeric datatype in JavaScript. With BigINt the total number of supported data type in JavaScript is 8. They are:-

1. String  
2. Number  
3. Bigint  
4. Boolean  
5. Undefined  
6. Null  
7. Symbol  
8. Object

The operators which we using with number we can also use those operator in the BigInt . But the arithmatic operation with `Number` and `BigInt` are not allowed. And unsigned right shift(>>>) can't be done on a `BigInt`. `BigInt` can't be a decimal point value. Like

```js
let x = 5n;
let y = Number(x) / 2; //It will throw an error because of BigInt and other
```