In programming we can compare a variable with a container. We can store our product into a container, and when we need that product then we use the product form container. Like this in variable we store data, and when we need data we can access that data from that variable.

In js we can define a variable using the keywords `var` and `let`. There has some fundamental difference. 

**Define variable using `var`:** We can define variable using `var` keyword. The syntax to define a variable given bellow:

Code:
```js
var firstVariable = 10;
//here we use the camelcase naming convention
console.log(firstVariable);
```

Output: 

```sh
10
```


**Define variable using `let`:** We can also define variable using `let` keyword. The syntax to define a variable given bellow:
**Code:**
```js
let firstVariable = 10;
//here we use the camelcase naming convention
console.log(firstVariable);
```

**Output:** 

```sh
10
```

There are some fundamental difference between `var` and `let`.

## **`var`**
- var has hoisted function scope. We will learn about hoisted scope later. For this feature if we use the variable before define it the compiler will not detect it as an error. An example are given bellow:
**Code:**
```js
console.log(variable);
var variable = 10;
```

**Output**:
```sh
undefined
```

- `var` has function scope. That's means if we declare variable using `var` we can use the variable outside from blocks. We make a block using curly braces `{}` . An example are given bellow:
**Code:**
```js
{
    var variable = 10;
}
console.log(variable);
```

**Output**:
```sh
10
```


## **`let`**
- let hasn't hoisted function scope. For this feature if we use the variable before define it the compiler will throw and error. An example are given bellow:
**Code:**
```js
console.log(variable);
let variable = 10;
```

**Output**:
**It will throw an error.**

- `let` has block scope. That's means if we declare variable using `let` we can't use the variable outside from blocks. We make a block using curly braces `{}` . An example are given bellow:
**Code:**
```js
{
    let variable = 10;
}
console.log(variable);
```

**Output**:
**It will throw an error.**

There has other differences between `var` and `let`. Like we can't re-declare let, but we can re-declare `var`.

And finally I want to say `let` has slightly better performance than `var` due to its stricter scoping rules and less overhead in managing variable environments.