## Operators

In JavaScript, operators are special symbols that perform operation on values and variables. They are essential for calculation, comparisons, assignments and logical operations within your code. In JavaScript there has eight type of operator. They are:
- Arithmetic Operators.
- Assignment Operators.
- Comparison Operators.
- String Operators.
- Logical Operators.
- Bitwise Operators.
- Ternary Operators.
- Other Operators.

**1. Arithmetic Operators:**

- Perform basic mathematical calculations:

- `+` (addition)
- `-` (subtraction)
- `*` (multiplication)
- `/` (division)
- `%` (modulo, remainder after division)


**2. Assignment Operators:**

- Assign values to variables:

- `=` (simple assignment)
- `+=` (addition assignment)
- `-=` (subtraction assignment)
- `*=` (multiplication assignment)
- `/=` (division assignment)
- `%=` (modulo assignment)


**3. Comparison Operators:**

- Compare values and return a boolean result (true or false):

- `==` (equal to)
- `!=` (not equal to)
- `>` (greater than)
- `<` (less than)
- `>=` (greater than or equal to)
- `<=` (less than or equal to)


**4. Logical Operators:**

- Combine multiple boolean expressions:
    
- `&&` (and)
- `||` (or)
- `!` (not)


**5. Conditional Operator (Ternary Operator):**

- Concise way to write an if-else statement:

- `condition ? expressionIfTrue : expressionIfFalse`


**6. Bitwise Operators:**

- Perform operations on individual bits of numbers (less common in everyday coding):

- `&` (bitwise AND)
- `|` (bitwise OR)
- `^` (bitwise XOR)
- `~` (bitwise NOT)
- `<<` (left shift)
- `>>` (signed right shift)
- `>>>` (unsigned right shift)


**7. String Operators:**

- Concatenate strings:

- `+` (addition)

**8. Increment & Decrement Operators:**
- `++` If we use this the value of variable will increase one. `i++`
- `--` If we use this the value of variable will decrease one. `i--`

**9. Other Operators:**

- `typeof` (determines the data type of a value)
- `instanceof` (checks if an object is an instance of a class)
- `in` (checks if a property exists in an object)
- `delete` (deletes a property from an object)
- `void` (evaluates an expression and returns undefined)
- `new` (creates a new object instance)

## Operands:

The numbers in an arithmetic operation are called operands. The operation is defined by an operator.

```sh
100   +  100
```

Here `100` are operands and `+` sign are operator.